# CTDPathSim
CTDPathSim: Cell line-tumor deconvoluted pathway-based similarity in the context of precision medicine in cancer 
We developed CTDPathSim, a computational pipeline to compute similarity scores between patient samples and cell lines using a pathway activity-based approach. CTDPathSim integrates sample-specific expression and methylation profiles utilizing a deconvolution method. CTDPathSim has four main computational steps. In order to capture the accurate methylation signal, in the first step, we employed a deconvolution-based algorithm and inferred sample’s deconvoluted methylation profile with proportions of different cell types in a sample’s bulk tumor tissue. In the second step, using the estimated proportions of different cell types in the previous step, we used bulk tumor gene expression data to infer sample-specific deconvoluted expression profile. In the third step, we computed sample-specific and cell line-specific differentially expressed (DE) genes and differentially methylated (DM) genes among the same cancer type cohort. Then using sample-specific DE genes that are present in COSMIC cancer gene list, we computed enriched biological pathways for each patient. Similarly, using cell line-specific DE genes that are present in COSMIC cancer gene list, we computed cell line-specific enriched biological pathways. In the last step, we computed a union of  pathways between each sample-cell line pair and computed a union of DE genes for each pair. We used DE genes that were enriched in union of pathways of each pair to compute the Spearman rank correlation between each patient-cell line pair using sample’s deconvoluted expression profile and cell line’s expression profile. Similarly, we found DM genes that were enriched in union of pathways of each pair. We computed the Spearman rank correlation using common DM genes in each sample-cell line pair using sample’s deconvoluted methylation profile and cell line’s methylation profile. 
